- I saw a video the other day.
It was sent to me by a
bunch of X three fans
and the title of the video
was, you Can't Get Big
with Bands.
And they expected me to be
offended, respond to 'em.
And I said, yeah, this, this
video's correct. Bands suck.
And they were like,
but what about X three?
Well, X three uses bands so
that we load the bottom of the exercise
and hyper load the top
so we have more access
to more musculature at the top.
We first exhaust at the top.
So you're doing repetitions
and you go, you never go to lockout,
but you go close to lockout.
So you want 120 degree angle
between upper and lower arm.
You're gonna do however
many repetitions you can do
until you can't get there anymore.
And then you just go as far as you can.
Now if you did this trying
to do like a pushup,
like you just throw a
band around your back
and you try to press away from yourself,
you'd end up twisting your joints.
You wouldn't get to muscular
stimulus or even fatigue at all
because you'd have to
stop because of the pain.
So that's a process
called neural inhibition.
So bands by themselves,
not even worth training.
Like if all you have access
to is bands don't even work out with 'em.
I'd rather you lift weights.
And I wrote the book,
weightlifting is a waste of time.
That's not very effective either,
but it's better than the joint
damage you're gonna receive
from trying to train just with bands.
If you have the rest of
the apparatus, the bar
that keeps your wrist
neutral as you're pushing
and pulling, that's key.
And then also the platform that
the banding runs underneath
that the X three has.
That's super important too,
because if you stand on a band,
and let's say you're
trying to do a deadlift,
keep in mind it only takes
seven pounds of lateral force
to break the human ankle.
Well, when I use X three,
I'm deadlifting 700 pounds.
So what do you think that's gonna do?
If I just step on the band and try
and put 700 lateral pounds
through my ankle joint?
Lateral means this way, not this way.
I'd probably break an ankle or both.
So now the good news is
your central nervous system
will just protect you.
So if you try and do that,
you just won't be able to
like your central nervous system
through a process called
neural inhibition,
which has shut you down.
So bands
by themselves totally suck X three may
bands very usable, very portable.
And the most important thing,
and I know a lot of
people think I don't agree
with this whole like
stretch range of motion
or lengthened range of motion,
that's the only place muscle
stimulus ever took place.
Like it's not that that range
of motion is special, it's
that you have less muscle capable
of firing in those positions.
So that's where you go to fatigue.
That's where you show the
central nervous system, Hey,
we don't have enough muscle
here and we can add more.
So you never want to not
load the bottom, you have
to load the bottom, and it takes
other equipment to do that.
A band by itself, you'll fail every time.